chore(spec): update sequencer-app docs (#1682)
astriaorg/astria: specs/sequencer-app.md

benefit of this is that it guarantees that multiple actions can be executed
atomically.

The structure of a transaction body is as follows:

```rust
pub struct TransactionBody {
    params: TransactionParams,
    actions: Actions,
}
```

Transaction parameters and actions are defined as the following:

```rust
pub struct TransactionParams {
    nonce: u32,
    chain_id: String,
}

pub(crate) struct Actions {
    group: Group, // actions are grouped by "bundleability" and authority level
    inner: Vec<Action>,
}
```

`Nonce` is an incrementing value that represents how many transactions have been

> previously submitted by the currently submitting account; thus it starts at 0,

Reviewer: > ... previously submitted by the transaction signer; thus...

maybe change from "currently submitting account"?

and must strictly increase by 1 for each following transaction.

The structure of a (signed) transaction is as follows:

```rust
pub struct Transaction {
    /// transaction signature
    signature: ed25519_consensus::Signature,
    /// the verification key of the signer
    verification_key: ed25519_consensus::VerificationKey,
    /// the transaction body which is signed
    body: TransactionBody,
    /// a bytes representation of the transaction body
    body_bytes: Bytes,
}
```

The address corresponding to the signer is derived from the
`ed25519_consensus::VerificationKey` (i.e. the public key).

> ## Actions

Reviewer: should we link to the [buf page](https://buf.build/astria/protocol-apis/docs/main:astria.protocol.transaction.v1) here? the actions are documented there as well,

* `Transfer`: represents a value transfer action between two accounts. It consists
of the following fields:

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |
  | to        | `Address`| The account to transfer to. The "from" address is assumed|
  ||| to be the signer of the transaction. |
  | amount    | `uint128`| The amount to transfer. |
  | asset     | `string` | The asset to transfer. |
  | fee_asset | `string` | The asset used to pay for the action's fees. |

* `RollupDataSubmission`: a transaction ordered by the sequencer, whose destination
is another chain. It consists of the following:

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |
  | rollup_id | `RollupId`| ID of the destination chain. |
  | data      | `bytes`  | The opaque transaction data. |
  | fee_asset | `string` | The asset used to pay for the action's fees. |

### Bridge Actions

These actions deal with transfering funds to/from a bridge account to be used on
a rollup.

* `InitBridgeAccount`: initializes a bridge account for the given rollup on the
sequencer chain. The signer of the transaction is the owner of the bridge account,

> and the only actor authorized to transfer out of the account. It is made up of

Reviewer: >and the only actor authorized to transfer out of the account
This is the `withdrawer_address`. By default it's set to the signer of the bridge init action, but can be set to a different address (either by providing a value here, or using a `BridgeSudoChange` action afterwards).

Author: Updated the description in fd47dc7. Lmk if that works for you!

the following fields:

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |
  | rollup_id | `RollupId` | The rollup ID with which to register the bridge account.|
  | asset     | `string`   | The asset ID that will be accepted by the account.|
  | fee_asset | `string`   | The asset with which to pay fees. |
  | sudo_address | `Address` | The address which has authority over the bridge|

>   ||| account. If empty, assigned to the signer. |

Reviewer: weird line break

  | withdrawer_address | `Address` | The address which is allowed to withdraw funds|

>   ||| from the bridge account. If empty, assigned to the signer.|

Reviewer: the description is split weird here

* `BridgeLock`: transfers funds from a sequencer account to a bridge account.
It is effectively similar to `Transfer`. Upon execution of a bridge lock action,

> a `Deposit` event will be emitted, containing the information of the transfer.

Reviewer: > ... a `Deposit` event will be included in the block data for the rollup this bridge account is registered to, containing the information of the transfer.

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |
  | to        | `Address`| The bridge account to transfer to. The "from" address|
  ||| is assumed to be the signer of the transaction. |
  | amount    | `uint128`| The amount to transfer. |
  | asset     | `string` | The asset to transfer. |
  | fee_asset | `string` | The asset used to pay for the action's fees. |
  | destination_chain_address | `string` | The address on the destination chain|

>   ||| which will receive the bridged funds. |

Reviewer: the description for `destination_chain_address` is split weird here

Author: This is to appease the linter, while still keeping it looking (hopefully) decent. Ex:

| field | type | description |
| ----  | ---- | ------ |
| fee_asset | `string` | The asset used to pay for the action's fees. |
| destination_chain_address | `string` | The address on the destination chain|
||| which will receive the bridged funds. |

  | fee_asset | `string` | The asset used to pay for the action's fees. |
  | memo      | `string` | Can be used to provide unique, identifying information|
  ||| about the bridge unlock action. |
  | bridge_address | `Address` | The address of the bridge account to transfer|
  ||| from. |
  | rollup_block_number | `uint64` | The block number on the rollup which triggered|
  ||| the transaction underlying the bridge unlock. |
  | rollup_withdrawal_event_id | `string` | An identifier of the original rollup|
  ||| can be used to trace distinct rollup events from the bridge. |

* `BridgeSudoChange`: changes the sudo and/or withdrawer address for the given
bridge account. The signer must be the current bridge sudo account.

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |
  | bridge_address | `Address` | The address of the bridge account to which these|
  ||| changes should be made. |
  | new_sudo_address | `Address` | The new sudo address for the bridge account.|
  ||| If unset, will stay the same. |
  | new_withdrawer_address | `Address` | The new withdrawer address for the bridge|
  ||| account. If unset, will stay the same. |

>   | fee_asset | `string` | The assed with which to pay fees for this action.|

Reviewer: >assed
asset

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |
  | raw_action | `google.protobuf.Any` | The raw IBC Relay action. |

* `Ics20Withdrawal`: transfers tokens from a sequencer account to a different
chain via [ICS-20 protocol](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc/blob/main/spec/app/ics-020-fungible-token-transfer/README.md).
It consists of the following:

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |
  | amount    | `uint218`| The amount to transfer. |
  | denom     | `string` | The denomination to transfer. |
  | destination_chain_address | `string` | The address on the destination chain|
  ||| to send the transfer to. Not validated by Astria. |
  | return_address | `Address` | The sequencer chain address to return funds to|
  ||| in case the withdrawal fails. |
  | timeout_height | `IbcHeight` | The sequencer height at which this action expires.|
  | timeout_time | `uint64` | The unix timestamp (ns) at which this transfer expires.|
  | source_channel | `string` | The source channel used for the withdrawal. |
  | fee_asset | `string` | The asset used to pay fees with. |

>   | memo | `string` | A memo to invlude with the transfer. |

Reviewer: >invlude

include

benefit of this is that it guarantees that multiple actions can be executed
atomically.

The structure of a transaction body is as follows:

```rust
pub struct TransactionBody {
    params: TransactionParams,
    actions: Actions,
}
```

Transaction parameters and actions are defined as the following:

```rust
pub struct TransactionParams {
    nonce: u32,
    chain_id: String,
}

pub(crate) struct Actions {
    group: Group, // actions are grouped by "bundleability" and authority level
    inner: Vec<Action>,
}
```

`Nonce` is an incrementing value that represents how many transactions have been
previously submitted by the transaction signer; thus it starts at 0, and must strictly
increase by 1 for each following transaction.

The structure of a (signed) transaction is as follows:

```rust
pub struct Transaction {
    /// transaction signature
    signature: ed25519_consensus::Signature,
    /// the verification key of the signer
    verification_key: ed25519_consensus::VerificationKey,
    /// the transaction body which is signed
    body: TransactionBody,
    /// a bytes representation of the transaction body

>     body_bytes: Bytes,

Author: Was a bit confused by the meaning of this, but attempted to remedy in f188251. Let me know if this works for you!

>     body_bytes: Bytes,

Reviewer 2: yeah your comment is fine, we originally only had the `body` in this type and not `body_bytes`, which would require the `body` to be re-encoded before signature verification (as the encoded body is the message which is signed). however, since protobuf isn't necessarily deterministic, if `body` encoded to different bytes than that were signed, signature verification would fail even if it was a valid transaction.

}
```

The address corresponding to the signer is derived from the
`ed25519_consensus::VerificationKey` (i.e. the public key).

## [Actions](https://buf.build/astria/protocol-apis/docs/main:astria.protocol.transaction.v1)

The following is an exhaustive list of all user-accessible actions available

> to be submitted as of Sequencer v1.0.0-rc.1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to be submitted.
```

don't think we need to put this, as the doc will be up to date as of when it's committed

### Core Protocol Actions

* `Transfer`: represents a value transfer action between two accounts. It consists
of the following fields:

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |

>   | to        | `Address`| The account to transfer to. The "from" address is assumed|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  | to        | `Address`| The recipient of the transfer. The "from" address is assumed|
```

* `RollupDataSubmission`: a transaction ordered by the sequencer, whose destination
is another chain. It consists of the following:

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |
  | rollup_id | `RollupId`| ID of the destination chain. |
  | data      | `bytes`  | The opaque transaction data. |
  | fee_asset | `string` | The asset used to pay for the action's fees. |

### Bridge Actions

These actions deal with transfering funds to/from a bridge account to be used on
a rollup.

* `InitBridgeAccount`: initializes a bridge account for the given rollup on the
sequencer chain. The `withdrawer_address` is the only actor authorized to transfer
out of the account. It is set by default to the signer of the transaction, but
can also be set to a different address within the action itself, or changed later
via a `BridgeSudoChange` action. `InitBridgeAccount` consists of the following
fields:

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |
  | rollup_id | `RollupId` | The rollup ID with which to register the bridge account.|
  | asset     | `string`   | The asset ID that will be accepted by the account.|

>   | fee_asset | `string`   | The asset with which to pay fees. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  | fee_asset | `string`   | The asset with which to pay fees for this action. |
```

  | sudo_address | `Address` | The address which has authority over the bridge|
  ||| account. If empty, assigned to the signer. |
  | withdrawer_address | `Address` | The address which is allowed to withdraw funds|
  ||| from the bridge account. If empty, assigned to the signer.|

* `BridgeLock`: transfers funds from a sequencer account to a bridge account.
It is effectively similar to `Transfer`. Upon execution of a bridge lock action,
a `Deposit` event will be included in the block data for the rollup this bridge
account is registered to, containing the information of the transfer.

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |
  | to        | `Address`| The bridge account to transfer to. The "from" address|
  ||| is assumed to be the signer of the transaction. |
  | amount    | `uint128`| The amount to transfer. |

>   | asset     | `string` | The asset to transfer. |

Reviewer 2: unrelated to this doc, but this seems like an unnecessary parameter since bridge accounts only have one asset. can make an issue

  | fee_asset | `string` | The asset used to pay for the action's fees. |
  | destination_chain_address | `string` | The address on the destination chain|
  ||| which will receive the bridged funds. |

> * `BridgeUnlock`: transfers funds from a bridge account to a sequencer account.

Reviewer 2: note that the signer of this tx must be the withdrawer for `bridge_address`

Author: Noted in f188251

Effectively similar to `Transfer`, it contains the following fields:

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |
  | to        | `Address`| The account to transfer to. |
  | amount    | `uint128`| The amount to transfer. |
  | fee_asset | `string` | The asset used to pay for the action's fees. |
  | memo      | `string` | Can be used to provide unique, identifying information|
  ||| about the bridge unlock action. |
  | bridge_address | `Address` | The address of the bridge account to transfer|
  ||| from. |
  | rollup_block_number | `uint64` | The block number on the rollup which triggered|
  ||| the transaction underlying the bridge unlock. |

>   | rollup_withdrawal_event_id | `string` | An identifier of the original rollup|
>   ||| can be used to trace distinct rollup events from the bridge. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  | rollup_withdrawal_event_id | `string` | An identifier of the rollup withrawal transaction|
  ||| which can be used to trace distinct rollup events from the bridge. |
```

* `BridgeSudoChange`: changes the sudo and/or withdrawer address for the given
bridge account. The signer must be the current bridge sudo account.

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |
  | bridge_address | `Address` | The address of the bridge account to which these|
  ||| changes should be made. |
  | new_sudo_address | `Address` | The new sudo address for the bridge account.|
  ||| If unset, will stay the same. |
  | new_withdrawer_address | `Address` | The new withdrawer address for the bridge|
  ||| account. If unset, will stay the same. |
  | fee_asset | `string` | The asset with which to pay fees for this action.|

### IBC User Actions

> Actions which deal with transfering funds between the sequencer and a separate
> chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Actions which deal with the IBC protocol.
```

ibc can be generic message passing, so would just say this

> * `IbcRelay`: transmits data packets between the sequencer chain and another

Reviewer 2: note that right now this is permissioned, only authorized accounts can relay, and this action is free to submit because of that. this also permissions who is allowed to open ibc channels

chain using the [IBC](https://www.ibcprotocol.dev/) protocol. It has one field:

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |

>   | raw_action | `google.protobuf.Any` | The raw IBC Relay action. |

Author: Linked in f188251.

* `Ics20Withdrawal`: transfers tokens from a sequencer account to a different
chain via [ICS-20 protocol](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc/blob/main/spec/app/ics-020-fungible-token-transfer/README.md).
It consists of the following:

  | **Field** | **Type** | **Description** |
  | --------- | -------- | ----------- |
  | amount    | `uint218`| The amount to transfer. |
  | denom     | `string` | The denomination to transfer. |
  | destination_chain_address | `string` | The address on the destination chain|
  ||| to send the transfer to. Not validated by Astria. |
  | return_address | `Address` | The sequencer chain address to return funds to|
  ||| in case the withdrawal fails. |

>   | timeout_height | `IbcHeight` | The sequencer height at which this action expires.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  | timeout_height | `IbcHeight` | The counterparty height at which this action expires.|
```

staking power votes on a block, it will be committed (finalized). During each
round, CometBFT calls into the sequencer app to execute the state transition
logic via ABCI (application blockchain interface).

As of CometBFT v0.38, The ABCI methods called during a one-round period are as
follows:

1. Prepare/Process Proposal
    * [PrepareProposal](https://docs.cometbft.com/v0.38/spec/abci/abci++_methods#prepareproposal)
   (if the node is a proposer),
    * [ProcessProposal](https://docs.cometbft.com/v0.38/spec/abci/abci++_methods#processproposal)
   (if the node is a validator but not a proposer)
2. [FinalizeBlock](https://docs.cometbft.com/v0.38/spec/abci/abci++_methods#finalizeblock)
3. [Commit](https://docs.cometbft.com/v0.38/spec/abci/abci++_methods#commit)

### PrepareProposal

If the given node is a validator as well as the proposer for this round,
`PrepareProposal` is called. `PrepareProposal` allows the list of transactions
suggested by CometBFT to be modified. Currently, the only modification we make is
adding commitments to the rollup data for each block. See the [related spec](./sequencer-inclusion-proofs.md)
for more details.

### ProcessProposal

> If the given node is a validator, but not the proposer for this round,
> `ProcessProposal` is called. This checks if the commitment to the rollup data is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For all nodes,`ProcessProposal` is called. However, only validator nodes need to validate and vote on the proposal. This checks if the commitment to the rollup data is
```

    execution, its fees (if any) are deducted from the signer's balance. Fees
    are paid to receiver in `EndBlock`. See [fees](#fees) for more details.
3. [EndBlock](https://docs.cometbft.com/v0.37/spec/abci/abci++_methods#endblock)
    * Stores any updates to the current validator set, then pays fees to the receiver.

### Commit

This is executed by all sequencer nodes to write the state changes to disk.

## Transaction Lifecycle

The lifecycle of a sequencer transaction is as follows:

* A user/application constructs a `TransactionBody`, which they sign,
  converting it into a signed `Transaction`.
* This transaction is serialized and submitted to a sequencer node via
  CometBFT's RPC endpoints `broadcast_tx_..`
* CometBFT calls into the sequencer application to validate the transaction
  using the ABCI method `CheckTx`. `CheckTx` returns either success or an error.
  If it is successful, the transaction is added to the CometBFT mempool and
  broadcasted throughout the network; otherwise, the transaction is discarded.
* The transaction will live in the mempool until it is included in a block
  proposal by a proposer.

> * Once inside a proposed block, the transaction will be executed by `FinalizeBlock`
>   during that block's lifecycle. At this point, the transaction will either
>   execute successfully or fail. If the transaction fails, it will still be included
>   in the block, but with a failure result, and will not have made any state changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* During the proposal phase, the proposer executes the transactions it wishes to include, and only includes ones which succeed. Any transactions which fails execution are removed from the mempool. Other nodes only accept blocks where all transactions succeed.
```

  ||| from. |
  | rollup_block_number | `uint64` | The block number on the rollup which triggered|
  ||| the transaction underlying the bridge unlock. |

>   | rollup_withdrawal_event_id | `string` | An identifier of the rollup withrawal transaction|

Reviewer 2: withdrawal*

  broadcasted throughout the network; otherwise, the transaction is discarded.
* The transaction will live in the mempool until it is included in a block
  proposal by a proposer.

> * During the proposal phase, the proposer executes the transactions it wishes to include, and only includes ones which succeed. Any transactions which fails execution are removed from the mempool. Other nodes only accept blocks where all transactions succeed.

Reviewer 2: which fail* execution
